- JESSE: Fair warning.
This is gonna be weirder... than usual.
Can't be helped.
You called me.
So here I am.
I know I ### you out sometimes.
I'm always glad to hear from you.
It's just that...
Might get my hopes up.
So many times it led to nothing.
I found nothing.
It's like...
...we live in a room.
And there's a poster on the wall.
We stare at it and we think
that's the whole world.
The room.
And the poster.
The picture something nice.
A landscape. A famous person.
Might in that movie.
What is it called?
"The prison movie."
The rooms, a cell, and a picture is...
...different for each of us.
It can be beautiful.
Or terrible.
But we're all trans-fixed.
But it's all a lie.
Something to distract us from the truth.
They're lying to us.
We're lying to ourselves.
The room's not the world. The world...
is much bigger and much stranger.
There's a hole hidden behind that poster
that leads to the real world.
We all feel safe in that room.
But sometimes...
Sometimes, something crawls out
from behind the poster.
And the ones that see it happen freak out.
And try to forget what they saw.
I'm here.
Why did you bring me here?
Hello?
Anyone here?
Yeah, I see it.
But what is it?
I can feel it, it... resonates.
The thing you showed me, my friend.
I forget.
It's all in my head.
There's no "you," right?
Where's everybody?
I need someone to point me
in the right direction.
(CHECKPOINT GATE BEEPS)
Federal Bureau of Control.
All these years I've been looking for them
and they were hiding in plain sight.
(DISTANT HUMMING)
Hello?
- MAN: (SINGING ALONG)
- JESSE: Hey, excuse me.
- JANITOR: There you are.
You are here to ### the job.
Janitor's assistant.
You need to go to the interview.
Go that way ###.
- JESSE: Thanks. Elevator that way.
Got it.
- JANITOR: Very good.
I'm Ahti. Janitor ###.
You work for me.
You can say I send you.
If they don't hire you ###.
###
###.
- JESSE: I've done enough nightshift loaner jobs
to know it makes us come off weird.
Ahti, the janitor, is a friendly face in my book.
- AHTI: Better than somebody ###.
(CHUCKLES) Think about it.
No offence.
(ELEVATOR BELL RINGS)
- JESSE: The cell, and the poster.
I was eleven years old the first time
I saw behind the poster.
They told me I imagined it.
I've been trying to pull it down ever since.
Will you help?
Did I lose you there for a moment?
You know what's on my mind.
My baby brother, Dylan.
Seventeen years since
the man of this bureau took him.
(DISTANT ALARM SOUND)
(DISTANT GUNSHOT)
(GASPS)
Shit!
Shit shit shit!
You want me to pick it up?
The murder weapon? Really?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
And there goes the poster.
- DARLING: Objects of Power can cause or be result of AWEs,
Altered World Events, intrusion upon the perceived reality. Now...
The Service Weapon is, of course,
a prime example of an OoP, a very powerful one.
### in the bureau DNA, a key component
in our Prime Candidate programme.
Come out of that Russian roulette a winner
and you (CHUCKLES) you're it.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
- JESSE: Look at this place.
Where am I?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
The same...
(EFFORT GRUNT)
Okay, now I have the gun.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
- TRENCH: Something's coming.
This threat...
###...
### as director.
Keep the bureau safe.
- JESSE: Did you hear that?
It's the dead man.
Right after the pyramid spoke to me
and there was just noise and...
I understood every word.
And this gun's alive.
You know what?
I'm happy.
Happy to be here.
Things have quieted down outside.
Is it safe to go?
(GROANS) What is that?
You can't let this happen.
You can't let this happen!
You can't LET THIS HAPPEN!!
(WHISPERING) You can't let this happen.
You stopped it.
(CHUCKLES) You...
Thank you!
That was...
...horror...
Get the fuck away!
- TRENCH: The hotline...
A secure line of communication.
Guidance.
Reach the hotline.
- JESSE: The hotline?
Is that the dead man?
Okay.
(ENEMY SPAWN SOUND)
(INDISTINCT, UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
The hissing sound
that tried to invade me earlier.
The hiss.
Burrowing into everything in this place.
Is the Hiss your enemy?
Alright, it's our enemy.
- TRENCH: Must cleanse Control Point.
###
Corrupt.
Spreading.
- JESSE: Cleanse the Control Point?
What does that mean?
Help me fix it.
Holy shit!
You did it!
We did it!
- WOMAN: Hello?
Can you hear me?
Are you with us?
We're the bureau.
Are you still...
- JESSE: I can't tell you how happy I am
to talk to somebody sane.
- WOMAN: The feeling is mutual.
I'm Pope, Emily Pope.
Dr. Darling's assistant.
- JESSE: My turn.
Should I lie?
Jesse Faden. I'm just visiting.
I should've lied.
- EMILY: Holy shit!
You're the new director!
Hold on! We're coming out.
(DOOR OPENS)
Director Faden.
- JESSE: Call me Jesse.
- EMILY: Okay, Jesse. I'm Emily.
But somehow this hostile force... this...
- JESSE: Hiss?
- EMILY: That works.
Somehow the Hiss managed to infiltrate
the building without any warning.
- JESSE: And just like that,
my name for it is official, the Hiss.
Like the sound of poison gas leaking in.
- EMILY: We're in full lockdown.
It seems to have spread
everywhere and everyone...
...not protected by an HRA.
And... extraordinarily, you.
You are the director and...
...that makes you special by definition.
Trench is no longer the director, obviously.
Ah... I'm sorry, I'm talking too much.
This... whole situation is just... a lot.
- JESSE: Trench is dead.
Shot.
Ah, I found his body.
And the gun.
The way ### like suicide.
- EMILY: The Service Weapon.
- JESSE: Also...
...and this can sound crazy.
But he keeps appearing to me.
Saying things...
It's hard to make out, but he told me
to cleanse the Control Point.
Push the Hiss out.
The whole room shifted around.
- EMILY: You did that?
And you entered the building when it's already
in the lockdown. Before you became the new director?
How?
- JESSE: I'm not ready
to tell her about you yet.
A janitor let me in.
- EMILY: (SCOFFS) I love it!
This is fucking unbelievable! It's...
I can't even...
(SCOFFS) Look, Jesse.
I have a million questions and...
You probably have a million more.
- JESSE: Like, do you know my brother Dylan?
Not yet.
- EMILY: But there's something
I need to ask you to do first.
If you can cleanse a Control Point...
...then you can maybe cure those infected
...or possessed by the Hiss.
Because if that's possible...
...our options are very different.
- JESSE: Emily Pope.
I don't know her. But I like her already.
She's the opposite of the faceless agents here
blamed for what happened to me for so long.
But I can't trust her yet.
Or rather the bureau she's a part of.
Yes.
I can try.
I'm speaking for you, of course.
We can try it together.
Okay, you're with me?
We did it before.
Push the Hiss out.
(EFFORT GRUNT)
Come on, come on!
It didn't work.
The Hiss has burrowed too deep.
Ripping it out rips them apart.
I can't clease them.
- EMILY: I saw.
It was worth the shot.
Thank you, Director... Jesse!
- JESSE: I'm gonna tell her why I'm here.
I'll risk it.
Listen.
The bureau was involved in an...
...incident in my hometown, Ordinary.
17 years ago.
The bureau came in
and covered the whole thing up.
I've been looking for this place
for a long time.
That's enough.
Maybe that's too much already.
I can't tell her about Dylan
and the rest yet.
- EMILY: I've seen mentions of
an Altered World Event case dealing with Ordinary.
You were at Ground Zero as a child?
It was one of the big ones before my time.
And very classified.
I can try to dig out some old files for you.
My boss, Casper Darling, would know but...
He's missing.
I think he knew this was coming or suspected.
He came up with the HRAs,
the Hedron Resonance Amplifers.
I think ### us.
A few of us.
And director Trench would know.
- JESSE: Trench.
The ghost... or... whatever he is...
He mentioned something called The Hotline.
Said I should find it.
It's another Object of Power like the gun.
An old ### telephone.
A direct line of communication
between the director and The Board.
Maybe you can talk ### clearly through that.
I mean, Trench had years and years of experience.
He might know how to distroy the Hiss.
- JESSE: Where is The Hotline?
- EMILY: It's kept in the Communication Department,
through the Mail Room.
It's part of the sector so we can access it
even with the lockdown in place.
We'll get the door open for you.
- JESSE: Okay. That's my next stop.
- EMILY: That Tommasi's department.
He's the Head of Communications.
I don't think he had an HRA.
He kinda made a point
about not wearing one earlier.
Keep an eye out.
- JESSE: They called me The Director.
(SCOFFS) That's not me.
I'm not a director-type.
Not a leader.
Why am I here?
I think you already know.
Yes, I came for my brother
but there are other reasons too.
I said I was looking for answers
but I might never understand them.
I'm not looking for proof.
This ### already is more than enough.
No matter what they told me
all those years, I know it's real now.
I didn't imagine this.
I wanna be a part of this world.
What scares me shitless
is that I finally found it.
Only to see the Hiss destroy it all.
(PHONE RINGS)
- EMILY: I know this is all new to you.
So don't hesitate to ask me anything you wanna know.
There are no stupid questions.
The door to the Comms Department is...
The Hotline should be
in the Communications Department.
- JESSE: Where does the Hiss come from?
- EMILY: I'm not sure. You said
the Hiss was here when you entered.
Did you see anything like that outside
before you came in?
- JESSE: No, no just inside.
- EMILY: The source is internal then.
The Oldest House is the sprawling complex
### opening to other places as well.
I don't even know where to start looking.
But in the context, it's good news.
The lockdown holds.
The Hiss escaping the building would be the end.
Pretty shitty world out there
if you ask me but...
I wouldn't want the Hiss to destroy it.
- JESSE: I'm with you on that, Emily.
You mentioned the Oldest House.
What is it?